why do people deliberately destroy
cultural heritage by doing so do they
believe they're erasing our history our
cultural memory it's true that we are
losing cultural heritage to erosion and
natural disasters but this is something
that is simply difficult to avoid I'm
here to show you today how we can use
pictures your pictures to reclaim the
history that is being lost using
innovative technology and the effort of
volunteers in the early 20th century
archeologists discovered hundreds of
statues and artifacts at the ancient
city of Hatra and northern Iraq statues
like this one were found in fragments
some of them missing their heads or arms
yet the clothing that they are wearing
and their pose can still tell us their
story
for example we believe that by wearing a
knee-length tunic and open bare feet
this was representative of a priest
however with a closer look at this
particular piece we can see that this
tunic being worn was elaborately
decorated which has led many researchers
to believe this was actually a statue of
a king performing his religious
functions when the Mosel cultural museum
opened in 1952 in northern Iraq this
statue as well as others were placed
there to preserve them for future
generations following the us-led
invasion of Iraq in 2003 a few statues
and artifacts were relocated to Baghdad
but this statue remained then in
February of last year a video was
released and it instantly went viral
maybe some of you remember seeing it
here's a short clip
than in luck heavy rumbling here here
[Music]
not a very pleasant sight right did you
notice anything familiar in the video
there it is
there is that very statue as it was
toppled over breaking into pieces when
Matthew Vincente and I saw this video we
were shocked
since we are archaeologists using
innovative technology for digital
preservation an idea sprung to mind
maybe we can crowdsource the images that
were taken of these artifacts before
they were destroyed to create digital
reconstruction if we can do that maybe
we can put them into a virtual museum to
tell that story and so two weeks after
we saw this video we started the project
called Project Mosul remember the
pictures of the statue I showed you
before this is actually the
crowd-sourced reconstruction of it
before it was destroyed now many of you
may be wondering how exactly does this
work
well the key to this technology is
called photogrammetry and it was
invented here in Germany it is the
technology that allows us to use
two-dimensional images taken of the same
object from different angles to create a
3d model I know you may be thinking this
sounds like magic but it's not let me
show you how it works
here are two crowd-sourced images of the
same statue what the computer can do is
it can detect similar features between
the photographs similar features of the
object then by using multiple photos in
this case it can begin to reconstruct
the object in 3d in this case you have
the position of the cameras when each
image was taken shown in blue now this
is a partial reconstruction I
MIT but why would I say partial well
simply because the statue was positioned
against a wall
we don't have photographs taken of it
from the back if I wanted to complete a
full digital reconstruction of this
statue I would need a proper camera
tripods proper lighting but we simply
can't do that with crowd-sourced images
think about it how many of you when you
visit a museum take photographs of all
parts of the statue even the back side
of it well maybe if some of you find
Michelangelo's David interesting I guess
but the thing is if we can find more
images of this object we can improve the
3d model when we started the project we
started it with the Mosel museum in mind
we figured we may get a few images some
people interested make one or two
virtual reconstructions but we had no
idea that we had sparked something that
would grow so quickly before we knew it
we realized it was obvious we could
apply this same idea to lost heritage
anywhere and so we decided to change the
name of the project to record them in
some in the summer of last year The
Economist magazines Media Lab reached
out to us they asked us hey would you
like us to build a virtual museum to put
the reconstructions back inside to tell
the story can you imagine a saying no of
course not we said yes we were so
excited this was exactly the initial
dream of that project and so now any of
you can experience recover Mosul on your
phone using Google cardboard or a tablet
or even YouTube 360 here is a screenshot
from the virtual museum and there it is
the partial reconstruction of the statue
as well as the line of Mosul the first
reconstruction completed by our project
although the video doesn't explicitly
show the line of Mosul being destroyed
we have many other examples of large
artifacts being destroyed that were
simply too
two have been stolen for example the
gate of Nimrud in northern iraq this is
a digital reconstruction from before and
this is actually during the destruction
or the Lion of a lot in Palmyra Syria
before and after although virtual
reconstructions are primarily the main
focus of our project some people have
been asking the question can we print
them in 3d we believe 3d printing
doesn't offer a straightforward solution
to lost heritage once an object is
destroyed it's gone but 3d printing does
offer an addition to tell that story for
example I can show you here there is the
statue from Hatra and the line of mosul
[Applause]
thank you now if you look closely you'll
notice that there are some parts that
are in color that have been printed in
in color and some parts that are in
white or gray this part was added simply
to hold the statues up this works the
same way if you visit a museum and a
statue is found in fragments it's put
together for the for the people to see
it this makes sense right however we are
much more interested in what virtual
reality has to offer for lost heritage
here's an example of one of the tower
tombs that was destroyed in palmyra
using sketch fabs online viewer we can
show that we have reconstructed three
parts of the exterior of the tomb but we
also have photos of the inside so we're
beginning to create a reconstruction of
the wall in the ceiling archeologists
worked there for many many years so we
also have architectural drawing plans of
this lost heritage unfortunately we are
not only losing cultural heritage to
areas of conflicts and at war we're also
loosening it to natural disasters this
is a 3d model of durbar square and
Kathmandu before the earthquake that
occurred last April and this is after
now you may be thinking you didn't
create these 3d models with only tourist
photographs and that's true but what
this represents is the ability for large
public organizations and private
industry to come together for
initiatives like ours and so one of the
major challenges of our project really
is to find photographs that were taken
before something happens right well the
Internet is basically a database with
millions of images right exactly so we
have begun to develop a tool that allows
us to extract images from websites like
flickr based on their geo tags to
complete reconstructions because we're
not only losing cultural heritage to
natural disasters and in war but we're
also losing it to something else
any idea just looking at these two
pictures maybe it's a little difficult
to remember but only a few weeks ago
this was an example of human destruction
by human stupidity because a man a
tourist in Lisbon wanted to climb onto
this statue and take a selfie with it
and pulled it down with him so we were
already finding photographs to complete
a digital reconstruction of this we need
to remember that the destruction of
cultural heritage isn't a recent
phenomenon in the 16th century European
priests and explorers burned thousands
of miles in the Americas of which we
only have a handful left
fast-forward to 2001 when the Taliban
blew up the Bamiyan Buddhas in
Afghanistan you see cultural heritage is
about our shared global history it helps
us connect with our ancestors and their
stories but we are losing pieces of it
every day to natural disasters and in
areas of conflict of course the loss of
human life is the most heartbreaking
loss but cultural heritage offers us a
way to preserve the memory of the people
for future generations we need your help
to reclaim the history that is being
lost will you join us
[Applause]
[Music]